# Reflections: 2018-07

## Script Execution Overview

| Date | PSP Ver. | Roadmap | Estimation | Time Log | Scope | Reflection |
|:----:|:--------:|:-------:|:----------:|:--------:|:-----:|:------:|
| 2018/07/16 | 2018-07-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/07/17 | 2018-07-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/07/18 | 2018-07-15 | **Partially** | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/07/19 | 2018-07-15 | **None** | **None** | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/07/20 | 2018-07-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/07/23 | 2018-07-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/07/24 | 2018-07-23 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/07/25 | 2018-07-23 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/07/26 | 2018-07-23 | Done | Done | Done | **Partially** | Done |
| 2018/07/27 | 2018-07-23 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/07/30 | 2018-07-23 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/07/31 | 2018-07-23 | Done | Done | Done | **None** | Done |

## 2018/07/13 (Friday)

- I want a convenient task tracking system in which I can **easily break a larger task into smaller tasks** as the sub-tasks. The sub-tasks can be divided further in a recursive way.
  - But before I create my own task tracking system, I should try harder to use YouTrack.
  - What really matters is the parent task implementation time should be the sum of all its immediate child tasks.
- I need to keep reminding myself of focusing on the task scope. Why don't I always focus on the scope? It's because I don't define the scope. When planning the task in the morning, I write down the vague description of the task and then start to work on it without working out a **roadmap**. In fact, **if I can't work out the roadmap for a task, that means I need to break it into smaller ones**.
- Therefore, I probably need **more planning** on my tasks before implementing them. In fact, my planning is already part of implementation.

## 2018/07/16 (Monday)

I need to work out an initial list of the task types I want to track:

- **Coding task:** Implement a feature (including the tests) or fix a bug. Note that the necessary documentation is also part of coding.
- **Learning task:** Study a library, a piece of software, or a technical article.
- **Documentation task:** Document something such as a process or some legacy code. The usual documentation work while working on a feature development or bug fixing is *NOT* counted as documentation task.

## 2018/07/17 (Tuesday)

- When reviewing the current day activities, I need to **pay attention to whether I have successfully managed the task scope or not**. Scope management is why I introduced the task roadmap. I need to ensure I have the sensation to minimize scope creeping. This is why I added the "Reflection" column to the "Script Execution Overview" table.
- A new type of task: **"Reviewing task"**
- I need to focus on what is really important to me. For example, I want to improve my throughput. Then I need to collect data to figure out what factors may hinder me from finishing more tasks. Although collecting task estimation data looks intriguing, it is not my current focus so I should put it aside.
- So **WHAT IS PREVENTING ME FROM FINISHING MORE TASKS?** It's the web development proficiency. Because I have never done web development before, I am not familiar with a lot of tools, libraries and other fundamental knowledge (such as HTTP protocol and security). If I know them well, I should be able to finish the task faster. So the **possible solution** is: caching up with the web development knowledge ASAP.

## 2018/07/18 (Wednesday)

- Today, I only planned three tasks, but I forgot to define the roadmap for one of them. This is because the first task was a meeting whose scope had been defined in the invitation email and I knew it well; the third task was a task I started yesterday so its scope was clearly defined yesterday. As a result, I forgot to define the scope for the second task because I had the impression in mind that "the task scope has been defined already" (true for the other two, but not for all). How should I prevent this from happening again? The **possible solution** is to print the script out and put it on my desk so it's easily seen to remind me of the process I should follow.

## 2018/07/19 (Thursday)

- Opps! I totally forgot to plan the tasks in the morning! When I came in this morning, I found an unread email, so I started to read and reply it. Then I forgot to plan the tasks and moved ahead to the work I didn't finish yesterday. Although there actually wasn't much to plan, the thing is I failed to follow the process I defined. I think there are two reasons. First, I haven't built in the habit of planning; second, there isn't anything to remind me of doing this if I forget. The **possible solution** is to set up a reminder, like the one I set to remind myself of daily reflections, for the morning plan as well.
- I need to record all the time consumption during the day: actual work time, resession time, even restroom time. The point is I would like to know how much time I use for effective recovery and how much is in fact "wasted" (maybe handling a phone call).

## 2018/07/20 (Friday)

- This morning when I came in, I attended a meeting that went unexpectedly long (3h40m) which I thought may just go about half an hour. After the meeting, I had a few new tasks to do. This is fine, in fact, because unexpectancy happens all the time. I can't require the rest of the world go the way I desire. What I can do is figure out a way to deal with that.
- To deal with **interruptions**, I really need to learn from how a computer handles it: it saves the **run-time context** and switches to the new task. With the saved **context**, one can always come back later easily. This is what I need: when I have new tasks, I need to replan all the tasks and **save the context** of those I need to suspend.

## 2018/07/23 (Monday)

- I need to define the **activities** for each process step so each step can be done over and over again consistently.

## 2018/07/26 (Thursday)

I didn't control the scope of tasks very well today. I kind of blame that for the probing nature of the tasks, by which I mean I am **NOT** clear what to do next either, so I couldn't define the task roadmap clearly, so I couldn't control the task scope very well.

Well, in fact, I could have. Although I didn't know what to do next, there must be something I am quite clear about. For example, I knew there was some documentation I could read; I knew there were some scripts I could run and test. The **possible solution** is: Whenever I find myself in such a situation, create a `probe` task with a time box. In this time box, I can explore as much as possible, with a plan or pure randomly. This `probe` task is used to find new ideas or options which can be turned into the next steps. I **must stop** and look back at what I have found so far when the time box is used up. A `probe` task may **NOT** have to have a clearly defined scope due to its probing nature.

## 2018/07/27 (Friday)

I planned my tasks in the morning. I didn't forget it because I had set a Calendar reminder so the first thing I see when I unlock my computer is that Calendar notice. However, **what I failed to do** was follow the Planning process. I didn't check all the sources of information. Instead, I briefly recalled what I did yesterday and made the plan. Although the plan itself was good enough, I should have followed the process I defined for myself.

Probably I really need to print it out and put it on my desk.

## 2018/07/31 (Tuesday)

If I know a task will be inevitably delayed, **should I re-plan the task, or should I keep the original plan and continue working on it and record all the important steps?** The answer depends on the purpose of recording the task execution information. If I want to compare the original plan and the actual execution to figure out why the first plan was so bad, I should keep the original plan. Otherwise, it may make sense to replan the task. Alternatively, I can replan the task and at the same time connect the replanned tasks and the original task, so later in the reflection phase I can look back at all the tasks.

Today when I am working on my task, I forgot to manage the taks scope. When I looked at the task I planned to do and the work I actually did, I realized I was working something completely out of the scope. Although the work I did must be done in the immediate future, this is still a planning or scope management failure. **I need to add a periodical reminder to remind me of looking at the task scope.**
