# Reflections: 2018-08

## Script Execution Overview

| Date | PSP Ver. | Context | Roadmap | Estimation | Time Log | Scope | Reflection |
|:----:|:--------:|:-------:|:-------:|:----------:|:--------:|:-----:|:------:|
| 2018/08/01 | 2018-07-15 | N/A | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/02 | 2018-07-15 | N/A | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/03 | 2018-07-15 | N/A | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/06 | 2018-08-04 | **Not done** | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/07 | 2018-08-04 | **Not done** | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/08 | 2018-08-04 | **Not done** | Done | Done | Done | Done | **Not done** |
| 2018/08/09 | 2018-08-04 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/10 | 2018-08-09 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/10 | 2018-08-09 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/13 | 2018-08-09 | **Not done** | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/14 | 2018-08-09 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/15 | 2018-08-09 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/16 | 2018-08-09 | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A |
| 2018/08/17 | 2018-08-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/20 | 2018-08-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | **Partially done** | Done |
| 2018/08/21 | 2018-08-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/22 | 2018-08-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/23 | 2018-08-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/24 | 2018-08-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/27 | 2018-08-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/28 | 2018-08-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/29 | 2018-08-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/30 | 2018-08-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/31 | 2018-08-15 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |

## 2018/08/01 (Wednesday)

In the past several weeks, Bill has been working on the new build system. Last week, he asked me to work on creating a VirtualBox image that can be used as a Jenkins worker to build code.

Today, he asked me whether I could finish the VM image so when he merged the code back to `master` branch, we could start to use the VM image to build code. It wasn't this moment that I realized I failed to do some things I should have done much earlier:

- Firstly, I didn't realize that my work was in fact closely related with his work. Once you realized this, it looked very obvious: he was working on the build system; I was working on the VM image that would be used to build code. Sure, when he merged the code back to `master`, we wanted the Jenkins build system to use the new VM image to provision worker machines to build code.
- Secondly, I didn't know his progress and how far he thought he may finish the work on his side, which was also the time I should finish my work.
- Even if I could have solved the two questions above, I still didn't do one thing well enough: keep communicating with him to understand how much I should do. Our code building infrastructure was not fully automated yet, so there would be a lot of work to do. I couldn't finish all the work, of course. Then I should have talked more with him about how much I need to finish. Meanwhile, the communication could also let me know how far he was away from completion so I could adjust my work accordingly.

This was a real good lesson.

The first two issues were about **understanding the context of the task**. Whenever I start to work on a task, I need to understand:

- Whose work is this task related with?
- When should this task be finished? Even if there is no specific completion date, some people may expect this task to be finished so they can use it. I need to figure out **who** has this expectation.

The third issue was about **managing task scope**. I need to communicate with the people who are related with my task to know whether I should make more effort on it or cut off some features of lower priority to make it complete earlier.

## 2018/08/07 (Tuesday)

Today my planned tasks were kind of interrupted because of the change of project focus. Since the new build system is done, we will no longer use Jenkins as the nightyly build system since now everyone can build the whole system on their own computer. But this reflected the necessity of communicating the task context: because I didn't communicate about the task context, I didn't realize we don't need Jenkins anymore until I was told so. In other words, my work today and yesterday was kind of wasted.

This is sad, but again this is good, because it once again makes me realize how important the task context can be.

## 2018/08/09 (Thursday)

I forgot to add my reflection yesterday which may be because of two reasons:

- I accidentally closed my Google Calender browser tab so the reminder didn't pop up.
- Although the reminder didn't pop up, I still remembered that I should reflect my work, but I didn't do that immediately when I recalled this.

As a result, I finally forgot to do that. This is not the end of the world, but I need to make sure I won't forget it over and over again.

Today I was asked what task I was working on since my previous task had been wrapped up already. I should have asked the question earlier before I was asked.

## 2018/08/10 (Friday)

I am doing **good** today. I planned my tasks in the morning and followed the roadmaps I developed for the tasks. Therefore, I could manage the work scope effectively and finish two planned tasks and one unplanned task (which was a show-stopper for the second planned task).

## 2018/08/13 (Mondey)

Today while I was about to start to work on my planned tasks, Matt came and told me we need to prepare more machines and install our applications to speed up the data processing. When I planned the new task, I remembered to work out a roadmap and the estimate, but I forgot to understand the context. Although I had some general ideas of when this task should be done, I forgot to explicitly communicate with others.

It makes less and less sense to mix "planning" and "designing", which is what I currently do. Currently, my planning includes designing: look into the details of a task to understand how it should be implemented (the roadmap) and then provide estimates for all the parts. This could potentially take long time. What I really need to do is separate the plan and design:

- I need to develop a strategy to measure the size of tasks.
- I need to accumulate historical size data for different kinds of tasks.
- When I plan the tasks, I should:
  - Measure the size of new task.
  - Use historical data to provide an overall estimate.
  - Record the data of the new task as new historical data.

Today I also found one new task source: calendar. There was a status update meeting this afternoon but I didn't notice that until the reminder popped up. I need to look at the calender when planning the tasks in the morning.

## 2018/08/14 (Tuesday)

This morning I was supposed to install our applications to a physical machine, but I kept failing because of some reasons I didn't understand. I was frustrated because I tested it with virtual machines yesterday and it worked well. The installation process was supposed to take not more than 15 minutes but I ended up using the whole morning.

In the reflection afterwards, I realized three issues:

- I didn't quite understand the Ansible playbook we were using so I didn't know completely how everything was set up.
- I didn't quite understand how some of the packages we were using work, so when problem happens I wasn't able to figure out how to fix it.
- I did test the installation process on VMs but the VMs were running in a different network environment than the real machine. This discrepancy may cause all the problems.

The trouble-shooting later showed the problem was caused by the apt-cacher-ng configuration. But I decided to study Ansible in depth to understand how things work.

## 2018/08/15 (Wednesday)

Today when I planned my tasks in the morning, I forgot to take a look at the Calendar. Although I didn't forget anything, I didn't follow the process precisely.

I also failed to reserve the time for the preparation of tomorrow's customer site trip. But this was not recorded anywhere because we only mentioned orally that I would go tomorrow.

## 2018/08/16 (Thursday)

I don't have any reflection today because I didn't work on any development task. Today I went to visit a customer site to collect data.

## 2018/08/20 (Monday)

Today I failed to control the task within the defined scope. Although what I worked on was definitely part of the task, I didn't define it explicitly in the task definition. As a result, I was technically working outside the task scope.

When I am working on a task and realize I need to learn some additional knowledge, is the learning activity inside or outside the task scope? It should be considered as "inside the scope" because learning additional knowledge is a possibly inevitable step of working on a task. Counting the time of learning as part of task can reflect the real amount of time that is needed to finish the task.

This is different from identifying such learning before starting the task. In other words:

- If I already know I need to learn something when I am planning the task, I can certainly create a separate task for the learning.
- If I don't realize the need of learning additional knowledge until I have started the task, I need to count it as part of the task.
