# myPSP Script

## Overview

- Version: 2018-07-23
- Purposes:
  - Find as many bugs as possible before the delivery of my task.
    - **Measurement**: The number of bugs that are found after I publish my work.
  - Manage the scope of my tasks so they don't get expanded erratically.
    - The further purpose is to increase my throughput so I can get as many tasks done as possible.
    - **Measurement**: The number of my Pull Requests that are ready for review and merge in one week. I don't use the number of _merged_ Pull Requests because the review depends on others availability. If I use the merged number, that also measures the others' throughput, not just mine.

## Definition

- **Planning**
  - **Activities**
    - Check the information sources to make sure I don't miss anything important. The sources include emails, Slack messages, GitHub issues, and YouTrack issues.
    - Figure out the tasks and their priorities.
    - Figure out the tasks' roadmaps and estimates.
  - **Output**
    - A list of tasks I plan to do for the day.
    - The roadmaps of all the planned tasks.
      - If I can't develop a complete roadmap for a task, that means the task is not quite ready for implementation and I should set up another task to resolve all the uncertainties first.
    - The time estimates of the planned tasks.
- **Development**
  - **Activities**
    - Log the time when working on a task.
    - Take breaks periodically to make sure I don't work beyond the scope.
  - **Output**
    - The time log of my day.
    - The time I spent on each task.
- **Reflection**
  - **Activities**
    - Reflect on how well I follow the process and if there is anything to improve.
  - **Output**
    - The reflection notes. Reflection is an important part of the daily process and I should make every possible effort not to skip it.
      - Set up a Calendar reminder for this action item.

## Incorporated PEPs

- 2018-07-23-01: Define process step activities.
